README.md, before:

# PopClip Extensions

## Introduction

PopClip extensions add extra actions to [PopClip](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip). 

![Screenshot showing extensions in use.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/extpic.png)

This repository contains the documentation for making your own extensions (this readme file) as well as the source files for the extensions published on the main [PopClip Extensions](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/extensions) page. Layout of the repo:

    docs/                 -- Image files and resources referred to in this README file.
    extensions/           -- Distributable versions of the extensions (zipped, with `.popclipextz` extension)
    source/               -- Source files for the extensions. The directories are left without the `.popclipext`
                             extension, for easier editing.
    README.md             -- This repository contains the documentation for making your own extensions
    LICENSE               -- MIT License text.

The extension source files are published under the MIT License (see LICENSE).

## Credits

Documentation and extensions were created by Nick Moore except where stated. Contributor credits are are shown in the readme file of each individual extension. 

## Third Party Repos

Andy Guzman is maintaining a set of [Markdown Extensions for PopClip](https://github.com/andyguzman/PopClippins) and [Lucifr](https://github.com/lucifr/PopClip-Extensions) has published a collection too.

## Disclaimer

These instructions are desiged to help a technically competent person to create their own PopClip extension. Please note that user-created extensions are not an officially supported part of PopClip. You need to be comfortable with creating and editing plist files, scripts, and so on. 

I reserve the right to change or remove features in future versions of PopClip at any time.

## Extension Signing

By default, PopClip will display a warning dialog when you try to install your own extension, because it is not digitally signed by Pilotmoon Software.

![Example unsigned warning.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/ext_warning.png)

If you find this gets annoying while you are testing your work, you can turn off the warning. Run the following command at the Terminal, then Quit and restart PopClip:

    defaults write com.pilotmoon.popclip LoadUnsignedExtensions -bool YES

Please be aware that PopClip extensions can contain arbitrary executable scripts. Be careful about the extensions you create, and be wary about loading extensions you get from someone else. Proceed at your own risk.

## General Overview

### Types of Actions

There are five main kinds of actions supported by PopClip extensions.

| Action Type | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
|Service|Invoke a Mac OS X Service, passing the selected text.| [MakeSticky](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/MakeSticky)| 
|AppleScript|Run an AppleScript, with the selected text embedded.|[Evernote](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Evernote)|
|Shell Script|Run a shell script, with the selected text passed as an environment variable.| [Say](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Say)
|URL|Open an HTTP URL, with the selected text URL-encoded and inserted.|[GoogleTranslate](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/GoogleTranslate)|
|Keypress|Press a key combination.| [Delete](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Delete)|


### Filtering
All extensions have access to the following filtering mechanisms, to help prevent them appearing when they are not useful:

* Filter by matching a regular expression.
* Filter by application (either include or exclude).
* Filter by whether cut, copy or paste is available.
* Filter by whether the text contains a URL, email address or file path.

### Limitations
Whilst the extensions mechanism is quite flexible, there are some limitations worth pointing out:

* The selected text is passed as plain text. Formatting is not preserved.
* Extensions cannot have their own preferences options. Everything must be pre-set in the extension package. Therefore, actions that would require the user to enter a username/password are currently not supported. (Although you could hard code these in your own private extensions.)


## Anatomy of a PopClip Extension

### About .popclipextz files
For distribution on the [PopClip Extensions](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/extensions) page, extensions are zipped and renamed with the extension `.popclipextz`. You can examine an existing PopClip extension by renaming it with a `.zip` extension and unzipping it, to reveal a `.popclipext` package.

### The .popclipext package
A PopClip extension consists of a property list called `Config.plist`, plus (optional) additional files such as the icon and any required scripts, all contained in a directory whose name ends with `.popclipext`. Such a directory will be treated as a package by Mac OS X. To view the contents of a package, right click it in Finder and choose 'Show Package Contents'.

If you double-click a `.popclipext` package, PopClip will attempt to load and install it. PopClip stores its installed extensions in `~/Library/Application Support/PopClip/Extensions/`. 

Here is an example package structure, using the 'Say' extension:

    Say.popclipext                  -- Containing folder
       _Signature.plist             -- Signature (official Pilotmoon extensions only)
       Config.plist                 -- Main configuration file
       say.sh                       -- Script file
       speechicon.png               -- Icon file

### The Config.plist
Every extension must contain a `Config.plist` file. This should be an XML-format plist. The plist contains information about the extension, and also defines one or more *actions*. You can generate a blank plist with Xcode or use this example as a basis: [ExampleConfig.plist](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/ExampleConfig.plist). Here is an example of the plist for 'Say', as viewed in Xcode:

![Example plist, for 'Say'.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/sayplist.png)

### Icons
Extensions may include icons to represent actions. The icon is displayed in the PopClip popup itself, and also in the preferences window.  Icons may be created in any graphics program. (I use [Pixelmator](http://www.pixelmator.com/).)  The icon should:

* be a PNG file
* be square
* be at least 256x256 pixels
* consist of solid black figure on a transparent background

Here is the icon file for 'Say':

![The 'Say' icon (256x256 PNG file)](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/source/Say/speechicon.png)

## Configuration Details

### General 
* All key names are case sensitive.
* Make sure that you set each field the correct type. A common error is to enter a number as a String type.

### Config.plist Structure
The `Config.plist` file has the following structure.

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|---------|-----------|
|`Version`|Number|Required|Must be the number `2`.|
|`Extension Identifier`|String| Required |Provide a string which uniquely identifies this extension. I recommend you use your own prefix, ideally a reverse DNS-style domain name based prefix. For example `com.my-domain-name.my-extension-identifier`.|
|`Extension Name`|String OR Dictionary| Required | ![Display names in use.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/names.png)<br>This is a display name that appears in the preferences list of extensions.  If you supply a string value, that string is always used. Alternatively, you can supply a dictionary mapping language code (`en`, `fr`, etc.) to a string. PopClip will display the appropriate string for the user's preferred language if possible, with fallback to the `en` string. |
|`Extension Image File`|String|Optional|File name of the icon to represent this extension in the preferences window. The icon file must be contained in the extension package. If you omit this field, the icon for the first action will be used (if any), or else no icon will be displayed. See [Icons](#icons) for required icon format.|
|`Blocked Apps`|Array|Optional|Array of bundle identifier strings (e.g. `com.apple.TextEdit`) of applications for which this extension's actions should not appear.|
|`Required Apps`|Array|Optional|Array of bundle identifier strings of applications required for this extension's actions to appear. |
|`Regular Expression`|String|Optional|A [Regular Expression](http://regularexpressions.info/) to be applied to the selected text. The action will appear only if the text matches the regex. Furthermore, only the matching part of the text is used in the action. The default regex is `(?s)^.{1,}$` (note that `(?s)` turns on multi-line mode). The engine used is [RegexKitLite](http://regexkit.sourceforge.net/RegexKitLite/).|
|`Requirements`|Array|Optional|Array consisting of one or more of the following strings:<br>`copy`: require Copy to be available<br> `cut`: require Cut to be available<br>`paste`: require Paste to be available<br>`formatting`: Require the text to be in a text field with formatting ability (bold, italic etc.). Note: experimental - might not be reliable.<br>`httpurl`: require the text to contain exactly one HTTP URL; only the matching part will be passed to the action<br>`email`: require the text to contain exactly one email address ; only the matching part will be passed to the action <br>`path`: require the text to contain exactly one local file path; only the matching part will be passed to the action <br> If this field is ommitted, the default is `copy`.|
|`Position`|Number|Optional|A number specifying where in the popup the action will appear relative to other actions. Fractional values are permitted and actions are sorted in numerical order left to right. The built in actions have the following fixed positions, which you should not use: *Open Link & Search*: `0.5`, *Cut, Copy & Paste*: `1.5`, *Dictionary, Email and Reveal in Finder*: `2.5`. The default is `3`, to appear on the right. Actions with the same position number appear in the order they were installed.|
|`Stay Visible`|Boolean|Optional|If `YES`, the PopClip popup will not disappear after the user clicks the action. Default is `NO`.|
|`Actions`|Array|Required|Array of dictionaries defining the actions for this extension (see below).|

### Action Dictionary
Each action dictionary has the following structure. Exactly **one** of `Service Name`, `AppleScript File`, `Shell Script File`, `URL` or `Key Combo` should be specified.

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|---------|-----------|
|`Title`|String OR Dictionary|Required|Format is as for `Extension Name` above. Note that every action must have a title, even if it is never displayed.|
|`Image File`|String|Optional| File name of the icon for this action in PopClip. The icon file must be contained in the extension package. If you omit this field, the `Title` will be displayed instead. See [Icons](#icons) for required icon format. |
|`Service Name`|String|Required for Service actions|Exact name of the OS X service to call (as shown in the Services menu). For example, `Make Sticky`.|
|`AppleScript File`|String|Required for AppleScript actions|The name of the AppleScript file to use. The file must exist in the extension's package. Within the script, use `"{popclip text}"` as the placeholder for the selected text. See also [Example AppleScript File](#example-applescript-file).|
|`Shell Script File`|String|Required for Shell Script actions|The name of the shell script file to invoke. The file must exist in the extension's package. This will be passed as the parameter to `/bin/sh`. Within the script, use the environment variable `$POPCLIP_TEXT` to access the selected text. The current working directory will be set to the package directory. See also [Example Shell Script File](#example-shell-script-file).|
|`Script Interpreter`|String|Optional|Specify the interpreter to use for the script specified in `Shell Script File`. The default is `/bin/sh` but you could use, for example, `/usr/bin/ruby`.
|`URL`|String|Required for URL actions|The URL to open when the user clicks the action. Use `{popclip text}` as placeholder. For example, `http://translate.google.com/#auto%7Cauto%7C{popclip text}`.|
|`Key Combo`|Dictionary|Required for Keypress actions|Specified the keypress which will be generated by PopClip. See [Key Code format](#key-code-format).|
|`Before`|String|Optional|String to indicate an action PopClip should take *before* performing the main action. One of: `copy`, `cut` or `paste`. This is used, for example, in the 'Paste and Enter' extension.|
|`After`|String|Optional|String to indicate an action PopClip should take *after* performing the main action. One of: `copy`, `cut`, `paste` or `paste-result`. See [Example Script Returning Result](#example-script-returning-result).|
|`Regular Expression`|String|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|
|`Requirements`|Array|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header. |
|`Position`|Number|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|
|`Stay Visible`|Boolean|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|

## Additional Notes

### Example AppleScript File
Here is an example of an AppleScript file for use in an extension (this one is for sending to Evernote):

    tell application "Evernote"
    	activate
    	set theNote to create note with text "{popclip text}"
    	open note window with theNote
    end tell

### Example Shell Script File
Here is an example of an shell script for use in an extension (this one is for 'Say'):

    echo $POPCLIP_TEXT | say

### Example Script Returning Result
Here is an example of a Ruby script that could be used in a shell script extension (with the `Command Interpreter` set to `/usr/bin/ruby`) and the `After` key set to `paste-result`. 

    input=ENV['POPCLIP_TEXT']
    # make the text ALL CAPS
    print input.upcase 

See also the [Uppercase](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Uppercase) extension on for a working example. 

Important notes on using`paste-result`:

* PopClip will block while the script is running. Therefore long-running scripts can degrade the PopClip user experience.
* `paste-result` works *only* with shell script extensions and not with AppleScript extensions.

### Key Code format
Key presses should be expressed as a dictionary with the following keys:

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|------|----|
|`keyChar`|String|(see note below) |Character key to press. For example `A`.|
|`keyCode`|Number|(see note below) |Virtual key code for key to press. For example, the delete key is `51`. For help finding the code see [this StackOverflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3202629/where-can-i-find-a-list-of-mac-virtual-key-codes).|
|`modifiers`|Number|Required|Bitmask for modifiers to press. Use `0` for no modifiers. Shift=`131072`, Control=`262144`, Option=`524288`, Command=`1048576`. Add together the values to specify multiple modifiers.

Note: Exactly one of `keyChar` or `keyCode` should be specified. Not both.

Commit message:

add Contributing section to readme

README.md, after:

# PopClip Extensions

## Introduction

PopClip extensions add extra actions to [PopClip](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip). 

![Screenshot showing extensions in use.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/extpic.png)

This repository contains the documentation for making your own extensions (this readme file) as well as the source files for the extensions published on the main [PopClip Extensions](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/extensions) page. Layout of the repo:

    docs/                 -- Image files and resources referred to in this README file.
    extensions/           -- Distributable versions of the extensions (zipped, with `.popclipextz` extension)
    source/               -- Source files for the extensions. The directories are left without the `.popclipext`
                             extension, for easier editing.
    README.md             -- This repository contains the documentation for making your own extensions
    LICENSE               -- MIT License text.


## License

All extension source files are published under the MIT License (see LICENSE) unless noted otherwise in the readme files of individual extensions.

## Credits

All the extensions and documentation were created by Nick Moore except where stated. Contributor credits are are shown in the readme file of each individual extension.

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute extensions, the best way is to fork this repository to your own account and add your new extension in there. Then send me a pull request. I recommend adding a readme file in your extension directory, giving yourself credit. I'll assume you are happy for me to publish your contributions on the main PopClip extensions page.

### Third Party Repos

Andy Guzman is maintaining a set of [Markdown Extensions for PopClip](https://github.com/andyguzman/PopClippins) and [Lucifr](https://github.com/lucifr/PopClip-Extensions) has published a collection too.

## Disclaimer

These instructions are desiged to help a technically competent person to create their own PopClip extension. Please note that user-created extensions are not an officially supported part of PopClip. You need to be comfortable with creating and editing plist files, scripts, and so on. 

I reserve the right to change or remove features in future versions of PopClip at any time.

## Extension Signing

By default, PopClip will display a warning dialog when you try to install your own extension, because it is not digitally signed by Pilotmoon Software.

![Example unsigned warning.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/ext_warning.png)

If you find this gets annoying while you are testing your work, you can turn off the warning. Run the following command at the Terminal, then Quit and restart PopClip:

    defaults write com.pilotmoon.popclip LoadUnsignedExtensions -bool YES

Please be aware that PopClip extensions can contain arbitrary executable scripts. Be careful about the extensions you create, and be wary about loading extensions you get from someone else. Proceed at your own risk.

## General Overview

### Types of Actions

There are five main kinds of actions supported by PopClip extensions.

| Action Type | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
|Service|Invoke a Mac OS X Service, passing the selected text.| [MakeSticky](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/MakeSticky)| 
|AppleScript|Run an AppleScript, with the selected text embedded.|[Evernote](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Evernote)|
|Shell Script|Run a shell script, with the selected text passed as an environment variable.| [Say](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Say)
|URL|Open an HTTP URL, with the selected text URL-encoded and inserted.|[GoogleTranslate](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/GoogleTranslate)|
|Keypress|Press a key combination.| [Delete](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Delete)|


### Filtering
All extensions have access to the following filtering mechanisms, to help prevent them appearing when they are not useful:

* Filter by matching a regular expression.
* Filter by application (either include or exclude).
* Filter by whether cut, copy or paste is available.
* Filter by whether the text contains a URL, email address or file path.

### Limitations
Whilst the extensions mechanism is quite flexible, there are some limitations worth pointing out:

* The selected text is passed as plain text. Formatting is not preserved.
* Extensions cannot have their own preferences options. Everything must be pre-set in the extension package. Therefore, actions that would require the user to enter a username/password are currently not supported. (Although you could hard code these in your own private extensions.)


## Anatomy of a PopClip Extension

### About .popclipextz files
For distribution on the [PopClip Extensions](http://pilotmoon.com/popclip/extensions) page, extensions are zipped and renamed with the extension `.popclipextz`. You can examine an existing PopClip extension by renaming it with a `.zip` extension and unzipping it, to reveal a `.popclipext` package.

### The .popclipext package
A PopClip extension consists of a property list called `Config.plist`, plus (optional) additional files such as the icon and any required scripts, all contained in a directory whose name ends with `.popclipext`. Such a directory will be treated as a package by Mac OS X. To view the contents of a package, right click it in Finder and choose 'Show Package Contents'.

If you double-click a `.popclipext` package, PopClip will attempt to load and install it. PopClip stores its installed extensions in `~/Library/Application Support/PopClip/Extensions/`. 

Here is an example package structure, using the 'Say' extension:

    Say.popclipext                  -- Containing folder
       _Signature.plist             -- Signature (official Pilotmoon extensions only)
       Config.plist                 -- Main configuration file
       say.sh                       -- Script file
       speechicon.png               -- Icon file

### The Config.plist
Every extension must contain a `Config.plist` file. This should be an XML-format plist. The plist contains information about the extension, and also defines one or more *actions*. You can generate a blank plist with Xcode or use this example as a basis: [ExampleConfig.plist](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/ExampleConfig.plist). Here is an example of the plist for 'Say', as viewed in Xcode:

![Example plist, for 'Say'.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/sayplist.png)

### Icons
Extensions may include icons to represent actions. The icon is displayed in the PopClip popup itself, and also in the preferences window.  Icons may be created in any graphics program. (I use [Pixelmator](http://www.pixelmator.com/).)  The icon should:

* be a PNG file
* be square
* be at least 256x256 pixels
* consist of solid black figure on a transparent background

Here is the icon file for 'Say':

![The 'Say' icon (256x256 PNG file)](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/source/Say/speechicon.png)

## Configuration Details

### General 
* All key names are case sensitive.
* Make sure that you set each field the correct type. A common error is to enter a number as a String type.

### Config.plist Structure
The `Config.plist` file has the following structure.

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|---------|-----------|
|`Version`|Number|Required|Must be the number `2`.|
|`Extension Identifier`|String| Required |Provide a string which uniquely identifies this extension. I recommend you use your own prefix, ideally a reverse DNS-style domain name based prefix. For example `com.my-domain-name.my-extension-identifier`.|
|`Extension Name`|String OR Dictionary| Required | ![Display names in use.](https://raw.github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/docs/names.png)<br>This is a display name that appears in the preferences list of extensions.  If you supply a string value, that string is always used. Alternatively, you can supply a dictionary mapping language code (`en`, `fr`, etc.) to a string. PopClip will display the appropriate string for the user's preferred language if possible, with fallback to the `en` string. |
|`Extension Image File`|String|Optional|File name of the icon to represent this extension in the preferences window. The icon file must be contained in the extension package. If you omit this field, the icon for the first action will be used (if any), or else no icon will be displayed. See [Icons](#icons) for required icon format.|
|`Blocked Apps`|Array|Optional|Array of bundle identifier strings (e.g. `com.apple.TextEdit`) of applications for which this extension's actions should not appear.|
|`Required Apps`|Array|Optional|Array of bundle identifier strings of applications required for this extension's actions to appear. |
|`Regular Expression`|String|Optional|A [Regular Expression](http://regularexpressions.info/) to be applied to the selected text. The action will appear only if the text matches the regex. Furthermore, only the matching part of the text is used in the action. The default regex is `(?s)^.{1,}$` (note that `(?s)` turns on multi-line mode). The engine used is [RegexKitLite](http://regexkit.sourceforge.net/RegexKitLite/).|
|`Requirements`|Array|Optional|Array consisting of one or more of the following strings:<br>`copy`: require Copy to be available<br> `cut`: require Cut to be available<br>`paste`: require Paste to be available<br>`formatting`: Require the text to be in a text field with formatting ability (bold, italic etc.). Note: experimental - might not be reliable.<br>`httpurl`: require the text to contain exactly one HTTP URL; only the matching part will be passed to the action<br>`email`: require the text to contain exactly one email address ; only the matching part will be passed to the action <br>`path`: require the text to contain exactly one local file path; only the matching part will be passed to the action <br> If this field is ommitted, the default is `copy`.|
|`Position`|Number|Optional|A number specifying where in the popup the action will appear relative to other actions. Fractional values are permitted and actions are sorted in numerical order left to right. The built in actions have the following fixed positions, which you should not use: *Open Link & Search*: `0.5`, *Cut, Copy & Paste*: `1.5`, *Dictionary, Email and Reveal in Finder*: `2.5`. The default is `3`, to appear on the right. Actions with the same position number appear in the order they were installed.|
|`Stay Visible`|Boolean|Optional|If `YES`, the PopClip popup will not disappear after the user clicks the action. Default is `NO`.|
|`Actions`|Array|Required|Array of dictionaries defining the actions for this extension (see below).|

### Action Dictionary
Each action dictionary has the following structure. Exactly **one** of `Service Name`, `AppleScript File`, `Shell Script File`, `URL` or `Key Combo` should be specified.

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|---------|-----------|
|`Title`|String OR Dictionary|Required|Format is as for `Extension Name` above. Note that every action must have a title, even if it is never displayed.|
|`Image File`|String|Optional| File name of the icon for this action in PopClip. The icon file must be contained in the extension package. If you omit this field, the `Title` will be displayed instead. See [Icons](#icons) for required icon format. |
|`Service Name`|String|Required for Service actions|Exact name of the OS X service to call (as shown in the Services menu). For example, `Make Sticky`.|
|`AppleScript File`|String|Required for AppleScript actions|The name of the AppleScript file to use. The file must exist in the extension's package. Within the script, use `"{popclip text}"` as the placeholder for the selected text. See also [Example AppleScript File](#example-applescript-file).|
|`Shell Script File`|String|Required for Shell Script actions|The name of the shell script file to invoke. The file must exist in the extension's package. This will be passed as the parameter to `/bin/sh`. Within the script, use the environment variable `$POPCLIP_TEXT` to access the selected text. The current working directory will be set to the package directory. See also [Example Shell Script File](#example-shell-script-file).|
|`Script Interpreter`|String|Optional|Specify the interpreter to use for the script specified in `Shell Script File`. The default is `/bin/sh` but you could use, for example, `/usr/bin/ruby`.
|`URL`|String|Required for URL actions|The URL to open when the user clicks the action. Use `{popclip text}` as placeholder. For example, `http://translate.google.com/#auto%7Cauto%7C{popclip text}`.|
|`Key Combo`|Dictionary|Required for Keypress actions|Specified the keypress which will be generated by PopClip. See [Key Code format](#key-code-format).|
|`Before`|String|Optional|String to indicate an action PopClip should take *before* performing the main action. One of: `copy`, `cut` or `paste`. This is used, for example, in the 'Paste and Enter' extension.|
|`After`|String|Optional|String to indicate an action PopClip should take *after* performing the main action. One of: `copy`, `cut`, `paste` or `paste-result`. See [Example Script Returning Result](#example-script-returning-result).|
|`Regular Expression`|String|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|
|`Requirements`|Array|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header. |
|`Position`|Number|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|
|`Stay Visible`|Boolean|Optional|As above; this value overrides the value specified in the extension header.|

## Additional Notes

### Example AppleScript File
Here is an example of an AppleScript file for use in an extension (this one is for sending to Evernote):

    tell application "Evernote"
    	activate
    	set theNote to create note with text "{popclip text}"
    	open note window with theNote
    end tell

### Example Shell Script File
Here is an example of an shell script for use in an extension (this one is for 'Say'):

    echo $POPCLIP_TEXT | say

### Example Script Returning Result
Here is an example of a Ruby script that could be used in a shell script extension (with the `Command Interpreter` set to `/usr/bin/ruby`) and the `After` key set to `paste-result`. 

    input=ENV['POPCLIP_TEXT']
    # make the text ALL CAPS
    print input.upcase 

See also the [Uppercase](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/Uppercase) extension on for a working example. 

Important notes on using`paste-result`:

* PopClip will block while the script is running. Therefore long-running scripts can degrade the PopClip user experience.
* `paste-result` works *only* with shell script extensions and not with AppleScript extensions.

### Key Code format
Key presses should be expressed as a dictionary with the following keys:

|Key|Type|Required?|Description|
|---|----|------|----|
|`keyChar`|String|(see note below) |Character key to press. For example `A`.|
|`keyCode`|Number|(see note below) |Virtual key code for key to press. For example, the delete key is `51`. For help finding the code see [this StackOverflow question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3202629/where-can-i-find-a-list-of-mac-virtual-key-codes).|
|`modifiers`|Number|Required|Bitmask for modifiers to press. Use `0` for no modifiers. Shift=`131072`, Control=`262144`, Option=`524288`, Command=`1048576`. Add together the values to specify multiple modifiers.

Note: Exactly one of `keyChar` or `keyCode` should be specified. Not both.
