source/ChatGPT.popclipext/Readme.md, before:

# ChatGPT

Send the selected text to [ChatGPT](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt), and append
the response.

Download:
[ChatGPT.popclipextz](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/raw/master/extensions/ChatGPT.popclipextz)

## Description

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/source/ChatGPT.popclipext/ChatGPT-demo.gif" width="480px">

The main action, **Chat**, sends the selected text to OpenAI's ChatGPT and
appends the response as a new line.

As a modifier, if you hold the Shift (⇧) key while invoking the action, the
response will be copied to the clipboard instead of appended to the selection.

The previous messages in the chat are sent along with each new message, allowing
an extended dialogue with the AI. The chat history automatically resets if there
are no messages for 5 minutes.

The **Reset** action (broom icon) clears the current chat history to start a
fresh conversation. You can uncheck the "Show Reset Button" option to hide this.

### Configuration

#### API Key

To use this extension, you need to provide it with an API Key for an OpenAI
account. To get an API Key:

1. Sign up for an OpenAI Account here: <https://platform.openai.com/>
2. Generate an API key here: <https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys>
3. Copy and paste the API Key (it starts with `sk-`) into the _API Key_ field in
   the extension's settings.

## About

This is an extension for [PopClip](https://pilotmoon.com/popclip/).

### Author

Author Name

### Acknowledgements

Icons:

- "openai" by [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/).
- "broom" by [GameIcons](https://game-icons.net/).

### Requirements

Requires PopClip 2022.12 and an Open AI Platform account.

### Links

- [GitHub Source](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/ChatGPT.popclipext)

## Changelog

### 2023-03-03

- Initial release

Commit message:

ChatGPT: add configurable reset timer

source/ChatGPT.popclipext/Readme.md, after:

# ChatGPT

Send the selected text to [ChatGPT](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt), and append
the response.

Download:
[ChatGPT.popclipextz](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/raw/master/extensions/ChatGPT.popclipextz)

## Description

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/master/source/ChatGPT.popclipext/ChatGPT-demo.gif" width="480px">

The main action, **Chat**, sends the selected text to OpenAI's ChatGPT and
appends the response as a new line.

As a modifier, if you hold the Shift (⇧) key while invoking the action, the
response will be copied to the clipboard instead of appended to the selection.

The previous messages in the chat are sent along with each new message, allowing
an extended dialogue with the AI.

The **Reset** action (broom icon) clears the current chat history to start a
fresh conversation.

### Configuration

#### API Key

To use this extension, you need to provide it with an API Key for an OpenAI
account. To get an API Key:

1. Sign up for an OpenAI Account here: <https://platform.openai.com/>
2. Generate an API key here: <https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys>
3. Copy and paste the API Key (it starts with `sk-`) into the _API Key_ field in
   the extension's settings.

#### Reset Timer (minutes)

After this many minutes without any messages, the extension will automatically
reset the conversation. Set it blank to never reset, and set it to 0 to always
reset. The default value is 15 minutes.

#### Show Reset Button

Control whether or not to show the reset action in the popup.

## About

This is an extension for [PopClip](https://pilotmoon.com/popclip/).

### Author

Author Name

### Acknowledgements

Icons:

- "openai" by [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/).
- "broom" by [GameIcons](https://game-icons.net/).

### Requirements

Requires PopClip 2022.12 and an Open AI Platform account.

### Links

- [GitHub Source](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/tree/master/source/ChatGPT.popclipext)

## Changelog

### 2023-03-03.1

- Add configurable reset timer.

### 2023-03-03

- Initial release.
