source/Obsidian.popclipext/readme.md, before:

# Obsidian PopClip Extension

Captures the selected text to [Obsidian][obsidian], placing it either in a specified file or in the Daily Note page, optionally under a configurable heading.

When the text is captured from a supported browser, the source link will be added.

**⚠️ Heads up! Preparation steps in Obsidian are needed. Please read the Configuration section carefully.**

## Configuration

Prerequisites:

- Install [Obsidian][obsidian].
- 👉 Install and enable the [Obsidian Advanced URI][uri-plugin] community plugin. 👈
- Know the name of the destination vault in Obsidian.
- Decide whether you want to append to Daily Note or a named file.
  - For Daily Note:
    - Activate the [Daily Note][dailynote-plugin] plugin in Obsidian.
    - If you want to append under a heading, add that heading to the Daily Note template in Obsidian.
  - For a named file:
    - Know the name of the file you want to append to.
    - If you want to append under a heading, add that heading to the file.

PopClip extension settings:

- **Vault Name**: The name of the vault in Obsidian.
- **File Name**: Enter the name of the file to append to, or leave blank to use the Daily Note.
- **Heading**: Enter the heading under which to append the text, or leave blank to not use a heading.

Troubleshooting:

- If the vault name does not exist, the capture action will silently fail.
- If the file name does not exist, the capture action will silently fail.
- If you don't specify a file name and the Daily Note plugin is not enabled, the capture action will silently fail.
- If you specify a heading but the heading does note exist in the file or Daily Note template, the capture action will silently fail.

## Notes

Author: Nick Moore, based on original snippet posted by [forum user EdM][edm]. Icon by Simple Icons.

[obsidian]: https://obsidian.md/
[uri-plugin]: https://vinzent03.github.io/obsidian-advanced-uri/installing
[dailynote-plugin]: https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Daily+notes
[edm]: https://forum.popclip.app/t/clip-selection-to-obsidian/359

## Changelog

- 27 May 2023: Initial release.

Commit message:

obsidian: include source link option

source/Obsidian.popclipext/readme.md, after:

# Obsidian PopClip Extension

Captures the selected text to [Obsidian][obsidian], placing it either in a specified file or in the Daily Note page, optionally under a configurable heading.

When the text is captured from a supported browser, the source link will be added.

**⚠️ Heads up! Preparation steps in Obsidian are needed. Please read the Configuration section carefully.**

## Configuration

Prerequisites:

- Install [Obsidian][obsidian].
- 👉 Install and enable the [Obsidian Advanced URI][uri-plugin] community plugin. 👈
- Know the name of the destination vault in Obsidian.
- Decide whether you want to append to Daily Note or a named file.
  - For Daily Note:
    - Activate the [Daily Note][dailynote-plugin] plugin in Obsidian.
    - If you want to append under a heading, add that heading to the Daily Note template in Obsidian.
  - For a named file:
    - Know the name of the file you want to append to.
    - If you want to append under a heading, add that heading to the file.

PopClip extension settings:

- **Vault Name**: The name of the vault in Obsidian.
- **File Name**: Enter the name of the file to append to, or leave blank to use the Daily Note.
- **Heading**: Enter the heading under which to append the text, or leave blank to not use a heading.
- **Include source link**: Whether to include the source page link when capturing from a supported browser.

Troubleshooting:

- If the vault name does not exist, the capture action will silently fail.
- If the file name does not exist, the capture action will silently fail.
- If you don't specify a file name and the Daily Note plugin is not enabled, the capture action will silently fail.
- If you specify a heading but the heading does note exist in the file or Daily Note template, the capture action will silently fail.

## Notes

Author: Nick Moore, based on original snippet posted by [forum user EdM][edm]. Icon by Simple Icons.

[obsidian]: https://obsidian.md/
[uri-plugin]: https://vinzent03.github.io/obsidian-advanced-uri/installing
[dailynote-plugin]: https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Daily+notes
[edm]: https://forum.popclip.app/t/clip-selection-to-obsidian/359

## Changelog

- 12 Jun 2024: Add option whether to include source link.
- 27 May 2023: Initial release.
