source/ChatGPTAPI.popclipext/Readme.md, before:

# ChatGPT API

PopClip extension to send the selected text to [OpenAI](https://openai.com/)'s GPT-3.5, GPT-4, GPT-4-Turbo or newest GPT-4o chat API, and append the response.

**Note: Requires pre-paid API credits on your OpenAI account. API usage is not included in ChatGPT Plus subscripiton.**

See also: [ChatGPT Website](https://www.popclip.app/extensions/x/73pbck) extension, which opens a new chat on the ChatGPT website with your selected text as the first message.

### Actions

The main action, **Chat**, sends the selected text to OpenAI and
appends the response as a new line.

The previous messages in the chat are sent along with each new message, allowing an extended dialogue with the AI.

Modifiers:

- Hold Shift(⇧) to copy just the response to the clipboard.

- Hold Option(⌥)-Shift(⇧) to paste just the response over the selection.

The **Reset** action (broom icon) clears the current chat history to start a
fresh conversation.

### Configuration

#### API Key

To use this extension, you need to provide it with an API Key for an OpenAI
account. To get an API Key:

1. Sign up for an OpenAI Account here: <https://platform.openai.com/>
2. Generate an API key here: <https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys>
3. Copy and paste the API Key (it starts with `sk-`) into the _API Key_ field in
   the extension's settings.

#### Model

Available values are `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4`, `gpt-4-turbo` and `gpt-4o`. Note that some accounts might not be able to access all models — see OpenAI's documentation for details.

#### Reset Timer (minutes)

After this many minutes without any messages, the extension will automatically
reset the conversation. Set it blank to never reset, and set it to 0 to always
reset. The default value is 15 minutes.

#### Show Reset Button

Control whether or not to show the reset action in the popup.

### Errors

You may see the following error:

`Message from OpenAI (code 429): You exceeded your current quota, please check your plan and billing data.`

The message means you need to add some credit to you OpenAI API account. You can do this at <https://platform.openai.com/account/billing/overview>.

## About

### Author

Nick Moore

### Acknowledgements

Icons:

- "openai" by [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/).
- "broom" by [GameIcons](https://game-icons.net/).

### Requirements

Requires PopClip 2024.5.1 and an Open AI Platform account.

## Changelog

- 2024-05-15 (2): Rename to `ChatGPT API` and refactor code slightly.
- 2024-05-15: Update model list to include `gpt-4o`. Thanks to [@igor-arkhipov](https://github.com/igor-arkhipov).
- 2024-03-14: Add support for `gpt-4-turbo-preview` model. Fix thanks to [@santiagoti](https://github.com/santiagoti).
- 2023-09-24: Add support for GPT-4 model. Fix thanks to [@rijieli](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/pull/1225).
- 2023-08-31: Add documentation about error message to README.
- 2023-07-15: Add error message reporting instead of just an X.
- 2023-03-03: Initial release.

Commit message:

update ChatGPT extensions with configurable prompt and other improvements

source/ChatGPTAPI.popclipext/Readme.md, after:

# ChatGPT API

PopClip extension to send the selected text, optionally with a pre-configured prompt, to [OpenAI](https://openai.com/)'s GPT-3.5, GPT-4, GPT-4-Turbo or newest GPT-4o chat API. The response is pasted after the selected text.

**Note: Requires pre-paid API credits on your OpenAI account. API usage is not included in ChatGPT Plus subscripiton.**

See also: [ChatGPT Website](https://www.popclip.app/extensions/x/73pbck) extension, which opens a new chat on the ChatGPT website.

### Actions

The main action, **Chat**, sends the selected text to OpenAI and
appends the response as a new line.

The previous messages in the chat are sent along with each new message, allowing an extended dialogue with the AI.

Modifiers:

- Hold Shift(⇧) to copy just the response to the clipboard.

- Hold Option(⌥)-Shift(⇧) to paste just the response over the selection.

The **Reset** action (broom icon) clears the current chat history to start a
fresh conversation.

### Configuration

#### API Key

To use this extension, you need to provide it with an API Key for an OpenAI
account. To get an API Key:

1. Sign up for an OpenAI Account here: <https://platform.openai.com/>
2. Generate an API key here: <https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys>
3. Copy and paste the API Key (it starts with `sk-`) into the _API Key_ field in
   the extension's settings.

#### Model

Available values are `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `gpt-4`, `gpt-4-turbo` and `gpt-4o`. Note that some accounts might not be able to access all models — see OpenAI's documentation for details.

#### Prompt

Optional text to include at the start of the first message of each new chat. The message will be formatted like this:

```
{your prompt here}

Text: """
{selected text here}
"""
```

(This quoting structure is recommended by OpenAI in their [prompt
engineering guide](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/6654000-best-practices-for-prompt-engineering-with-the-openai-api).)

Example prompts might be:

- _Translate the following text into French._
- _Summarize the following text in 20 words or less._
- _Act as a proofreader. Correct the spelling and grammar of the following text._

If you leave the Prompt field blank, the selected text will be sent as-is, without a prompt.

#### Reset Timer (minutes)

After this many minutes without any messages, the extension will automatically
reset the conversation. Set it blank to never reset, and set it to 0 to always
reset. The default value is 15 minutes.

#### Show Reset Button

Control whether or not to show the reset action in the popup.

### Errors

You may see the following error:

`Message from OpenAI (code 429): You exceeded your current quota, please check your plan and billing data.`

The message means you need to add some credit to you OpenAI API account. You can do this at <https://platform.openai.com/account/billing/overview>.

## About

### Author

Nick Moore

### Acknowledgements

Icons:

- "openai" by [Simple Icons](https://simpleicons.org/).
- "broom" by [GameIcons](https://game-icons.net/).

### Requirements

Requires PopClip 2024.5.1 and an Open AI Platform account.

## Changelog

- 2024-05-17: Store API key in keychain. Configurable prompt. PopClip bar stays on screen after pressing reset.
- 2024-05-15 (2): Rename to `ChatGPT API` and refactor code slightly.
- 2024-05-15: Update model list to include `gpt-4o`. Thanks to [@igor-arkhipov](https://github.com/igor-arkhipov).
- 2024-03-14: Add support for `gpt-4-turbo-preview` model. Fix thanks to [@santiagoti](https://github.com/santiagoti).
- 2023-09-24: Add support for GPT-4 model. Fix thanks to [@rijieli](https://github.com/pilotmoon/PopClip-Extensions/pull/1225).
- 2023-08-31: Add documentation about error message to README.
- 2023-07-15: Add error message reporting instead of just an X.
- 2023-03-03: Initial release.
